.\" ##########################################################################
.\" #                      __                                                #
.\" #      ________ ___   / /  ___     Scala 2 On-line Manual Pages          #
.\" #     / __/ __// _ | / /  / _ |    (c) 2002-2007, LAMP/EPFL              #
.\" #   __\ \/ /__/ __ |/ /__/ __ |                                          #
.\" #  /____/\___/_/ |_/____/_/ | |    http://scala-lang.org/                #
.\" #                           |/                                           #
.\" ##########################################################################
.\"
.\" Process this file with nroff -man scala.1
.\"
.TH sbaz 1  "August 24, 2006" "version 0.3" "USER COMMANDS"
.\"
.\" ############################## NAME ###############################
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBsbaz\fR \- Scala package sharing tool for the Scala 2 language
.\"
.\" ############################## SYNOPSIS ###############################
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBsbaz\fR  [ <\fIglobal_options\fR> ] <\fIcommand\fR> [ <\fIcommand_options\fR> ]
.\"
.\" ############################## PARAMETERS ###############################
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
<\fIglobal_options\fR>
Command line options. See \fBOPTIONS\fR below.
.TP
<\fIcommand\fR>
Internal \fBsbaz\fR command.
.TP
<\fIcommand_options\fR>
\fBsbaz\fR command options.
.\"
.\" ############################## DESCRIPTION ###############################
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBsbaz\fR tool is a system used by Scala enthusiasts to share computer files with each other. In particular, it makes it easy to share libraries and applications.
.\"
.\" ############################## OPTIONS ###############################
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The \fBsbaz\fR tool has a set of standard options that are supported on the current development environment and will be supported in future releases.
.\"
.\" ############################## Global Options ###############################
.\"
.SS "Global Options"
.PP
.TP
\fB\-d\fR <\fIdir\fR> 
Operate on dir as the local managed directory.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR | \fB\-\-dryrun\fR 
Do not actually do anything.  Only print out what tool would normally do with the following arguments.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR | \fB\-\-verbose\fR 
Output messages about what the \fBsbaz\fR tool is doing
.TP
\fB\-version\fR 
Display the version information
.TP
\fB\--univ\fR <\fIname\fR>
Operate on the named remote universe, selected from those in the local managed directory's universe. Affects the \fBshare\fR and \fBretract\fR commands.
.TP
\fB\--univ-url\fR <\fIurl\fR>
Operate on the universe at the specified URL.  Affects the \fBshare\fR and \fBretract\fR commands.
.\"
.\" ############################## Available Commands ###############################
.\"
.SS "Available Commands"
.PP
.TP
\fBavailable\fR
List the available packages for installation; only display the three most recent versions of each package.
.TP
\fBavailable\fR \fB\-a\fR 
List the available packages for installation; display all shared versions of each package.
.TP
\fBcompact\fR
Clear the download cache to save space.
.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Display a help message.
.TP
\fBinstall\fR
Install a package.
.TP
\fBinstalled\fR
List the packages that are installed.
.TP
\fBkeycreate\fR
Request that a new key be created.
.TP
\fBkeyforget\fR
Forget the specified key.
.TP
\fBkeyknown\fR
List all known keys.
.TP
\fBkeyremember\fR
Remember the specified key for future use.
.TP
\fBkeyremoteknown\fR
List all keys known to the bazaar server.
.TP
\fBkeyrevoke\fR
Request that a specified key be revoked.
.TP
\fBpack\fR <\fIname\fR> <\fIdirectory\fR> [ <\fIoptions\fR> ]
Create an sbaz package and, if a link base is specified, an advertisement file. The package file is named name-version.sbp. The advertisement file is named name-version.advert. The URL is the advertisement file is the URL base with the package filename appended.
.TP
\fBremove\fR
Remove a package.
.TP
\fBretract\fR
Retract a previously shared package.
.TP
\fBsetuniverse\fR
Set the universe for a directory.
.TP
\fBsetup\fR
Initialize a directory to be managed.
.TP
\fBshare\fR <\fIfilename\fR>
Share a package advertisement on a bazaar.
.TP
\fBshare\fR \fB\-i\fR <\fIdescriptor\fR> 
The package advertisement is usually specified in a file, but it may also be specified on the command line with the \fB\-i\fR  option.
.TP
\fBshare\fR \fB\-\-template\fR 
If \fB\-\-template\fR  is specified, then instead of uploading a description, the command prints out a template of a package advertisement.
.TP
\fBshow\fR
Show information about one package.
.TP
\fBupdate\fR
Update the list of available packages.
.TP
\fBupgrade\fR
Upgrade all possible packages.
.\"
.\" ############################## EXAMPLES ###############################
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.TP
Update the list of available packages.
\fBsbaz\fR \fBupdate\fR
.TP
Upload package description for scala-devel-2.5.1 to the universe
\fBsbaz\fR \fBshare\fR scala-devel-2.5.1.advert
.\"
.\" ############################## EXIT STATUS ###############################
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fBsbaz\fR returns a zero exist status if it succeeds to process the specified input files. Non zero is returned in case of failure.
.\"
.\" ############################## AUTHOR ###############################
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Lex Spoon.
.\"
.\" ############################## REPORTING BUGS ###############################
.\"
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <scala@listes.epfl.ch>.
.\"
.\" ############################## COPYRIGHT ###############################
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
This is open-source software, available to you under a BSD-like license. See accomponying "copyright" or "LICENSE" file for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" ############################## SEE ALSO ###############################
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBfsc\fR(1), \fBscala\fR(1), \fBscalac\fR(1), \fBscaladoc\fR(1), \fBscalap\fR(1)
