.\" ##########################################################################
.\" #                      __                                                #
.\" #      ________ ___   / /  ___     Scala On-line Manual Pages            #
.\" #     / __/ __// _ | / /  / _ |    (c) 2002-2005, LAMP/EPFL              #
.\" #   __\ \/ /__/ __ |/ /__/ __ |                                          #
.\" #  /____/\___/_/ |_/____/_/ | |    http://scala.epfl.ch/                 #
.\" #                           |/                                           #
.\" ##########################################################################
.\"
.\" Process this file with nroff -man scalac2.1
.\"
.TH scalac2 1  "April 29, 2005" "version 0.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.\"
.\" ################################# NAME ###################################
.\"
.SH NAME
scalac2 \- Compiler for the Scala language
.\"
.\" ############################### SYNOPSIS #################################
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBscalac2\fR [ <\fIoptions\fR> ] <\fIsource files\fR>
.\"
.\" ############################### PARAMETERS ###############################
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
<\fIoptions\fR>
Command line options. See \fBOPTIONS\fR below.
.TP
<\fIsource files\fR>
One or more source files to be compiled (such as MyClass.scala).
.\"
.\" ############################## DESCRIPTION ###############################
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBscalac2\fR tool reads class and object definitions, written in the
Scala programming language, and compiles them into bytecode class files.
.PP
By default, the compiler puts each class file in the same directory as its
source file. You can specify a separate destination directory with -d (see
\fBOPTIONS\fR, below).
.\"
.\" ############################### OPTIONS ##################################
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
The compiler has a set of standard options that are supported on the current
development environment and will be supported in future releases.  An
additional set of non-standard options are specific to the current virtual
machine implementation and are subject to change in the future.  Non-standard
options begin with \fB-X\fR.
.SS Standard Options
.TP
\fB\-g\fR
Generate debugging info
.TP
\fB\-nowarn\fR
Generate no warnings
.TP
\fB\-verbose\fR
Output messages about what the compiler is doing
.TP
\fB\-classpath\fR <\fIpath\fR>
Specify where to find user class files (on Unix-based systems
a colon-separated list of paths, on Windows-based systems, a
semicolon-separate list of paths). This does not override the
built-in ("boot") search path.
.TP
\fB\-sourcepath\fR <\fIpath\fR>
Specify where to find input source files.
.TP
\fB\-bootclasspath\fR <\fIpath\fR>
Override location of bootstrap class files (where to find the
standard built-in classes, such as "scala.List").
.TP
\fB\-extdirs\fR <\fIdirs\fR>
Override location of installed extensions.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>
Specify where to place generated class files.
.TP
\fB\-encoding\fR <\fIencoding\fR>
Specify character encoding used by source files.
.TP
\fB\-separate:\fR<\fIseparate\fR>
Read symbol files for separate compilation: (\fIyes\fR, \fIno\fR).
.TP
\fB\-target:\fR<\fItarget\fR>
Specify which backend to use (\fIjvm\fR, \fImsil\fR).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR <\fIassembly files\fR>
CLR Assemblies referenced by the source program (only relevant with
option '-target:msil').
.TP
\fB\-o\fR <\fIassembly name\fR>
Name of the output assembly (only relevant with option '-target:msil').
.TP
\fB\-version\fR
Print product version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-? -help\fR
Print a synopsis of standard options.
.SS Non-Standard Options
.TP
\fB\-Xshortname\fR
Display short file names in error reports.
.TP
\fB\-Xmarkup\fR
No effect, only for compatibility.
.TP
\fB\-Xnewmatch\fR
New pattern matching.
.TP
\fB\-XpreserveWS\fR
Don't trim whitespace in XML literals.
.TP
\fB\-XrootClass\fR <\fIclass\fR>
Specify the root class of the global application.
.TP
\fB\-XappFile\fR <\fIfile\fR>
Specify the filename where to dump the whole-application inferred from the rootclass.
.TP
\fB\-XdotFile\fR <\fIfile\fR>
Specify the filename where to print the AST in graphviz dot format.
.TP
\fB\-Xrta\fR
Perform Rapid Type analysis for method call resolution.
.TP
\fB\-Xinline\fR
Inline method calls that can be resolved statically.
.TP
\fB\-Xrtt\fR
Enable run-time types.
.SS Debug Options
.TP
.B \-debug
Output debugging messages.
.TP
\fB\-explaintypes\fR
Explain type errors in more detail.
.TP
\fB\-uniqid\fR
Print identifiers with unique names.
.TP
\fB\-types\fR
Print tree types.
.TP
\fB\-prompt\fR
Display a prompt after each error.
.TP
\fB\-noimports\fR
Compile without any implicit imports.
.TP
\fB\-nopredefs\fR
Compile without any implicit predefined values.
.TP
\fB\-skip:\fR<\fIphases\fR>
Skip <\fIphases\fR> (see below).
.TP
\fB\-check:\fR<\fIphases\fR>
Check the tree after <\fIphases\fR> (see below).
.TP
\fB\-print:\fR<phases>
Print out program after <\fIphases\fR> (see below).
.TP
\fB\-printer:\fR<\fIprinter\fR>
Printer to use.
.TP
\fB\-print-file\fR <\fIfile\fR>
Specify file in which to print trees.
.TP
\fB\-graph:\fR<\fIphases\fR>
Graph the program after <\fIphases\fR> (see below).
.TP
\fB\-stop:\fR<\fIphases\fR>
Stop after first phase in <\fIphases\fR> (see below).
.TP
\fB\-log:\fR<\fIphases\fR>
Log operations in <\fIphases\fR> (see below).
.SS Compilation Phases
.TP
\fIinitial\fR
initializing compiler
.TP
\fIparse\fR
parse source files
.TP
\fInamer\fR
create symbols
.TP
\fIanalyze\fR
name and type analysis
.TP
\fIrefcheck\fR
reference checking
.TP
\fIuncurry\fR
uncurry function types and applications
.TP
\fItransmatch\fR
translate match expressions
.TP
\fIlambdalift\fR
lambda lifter
.TP
\fItypesasvalues\fR
represent types as values
.TP
\fIaddaccessors\fR
add accessors for constructor arguments
.TP
\fIexplicitouterclasses\fR
make links from inner classes to enclosing one explicit
.TP
\fIaddconstructors\fR
add explicit constructor for each class
.TP
\fItailcall\fR
add tail-calls
.TP
\fIwholeprog\fR
perform whole program analysis
.TP
\fIaddinterfaces\fR
add one interface per class
.TP
\fIexpandmixins\fR
expand mixins by code copying
.TP
\fIboxing\fR
makes boxing explicit
.TP
\fIerasure\fR
type eraser
.TP
\fIicode\fR
generate icode
.TP
\fIcodegen\fR
enable code generation
.TP
\fIterminal\fR
compilation terminated
.TP
\fIall\fR
matches all phases

.\"
.\" ############################### EXAMPLES #################################
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Compile a Scala program
.BR
\fBscalac2\fR HelloWorld
.TP
Compile a Scala program to the destination directory \fBclasses\fR
.BR
\fBscalac2\fR \-d classes HelloWorld.scala
.TP
Compile all Scala files found in the source directory \fBsrc\fR to the
destination directory \fBclasses\fR
.BR
\fBscalac2\fR \-d classes src/*.scala 
.\"
.\" ############################# EXIT STATUS ################################
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
\fBscalac2\fR returns a zero exist status if it succeeds to compile the
specified input files. Non zero is returned in case of failure.
.\"
.\" ############################## AUTHOR(S) #################################
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Stephane Micheloud.
.\"
.\" ################################ BUGS ####################################
.\"
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <scala@lists.epfl.ch>.
.\"
.\" ############################# COPYRIGHT ##################################
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002-2005 LAMP/EPFL
.PP
This is free software; see the distribution for copying conditions.  There is
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" ############################## SEE ALSO ##################################
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scala2(1)
.\" ,
.\" .BR scaladoc(1),
.\" .BR scalaint(1),
.\" .BR scalarun(1)
.\"
.\" ##########################################################################
.\" $Id$
