.\" ##########################################################################
.\" #                      __                                                #
.\" #      ________ ___   / /  ___     Scala On-line Manual Pages            #
.\" #     / __/ __// _ | / /  / _ |    (c) 2002-2005, LAMP/EPFL              #
.\" #   __\ \/ /__/ __ |/ /__/ __ |                                          #
.\" #  /____/\___/_/ |_/____/_/ | |    http://scala.epfl.ch/                 #
.\" #                           |/                                           #
.\" ##########################################################################
.\"
.\" Process this file with nroff -man scaladoc.1
.\"
.TH scaladoc 1  "April 29, 2005" "version 0.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.\"
.\" ################################# NAME ###################################
.\"
.SH NAME
scaladoc \- Scala API documentation generator
.\"
.\" ############################### SYNOPSIS #################################
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBscaladoc\fR [ <\fIoptions\fR> ] <\fIsource files\fR> [ -- <\fIpackages\fR> ]
.\"
.\" ############################### PARAMETERS ###############################
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
<\fIoptions\fR>
Command line options. See \fBOPTIONS\fR below.
.TP
<\fIsource files\fR>
A series of source file names, separated by spaces, each of which can
include paths and wildcards such as asterisk (*).
.TP
<\fIpackages\fR>
.
.\"
.\" ############################## DESCRIPTION ###############################
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Scaladoc tool parses the declarations and documentation comments in a
set of Scala source files and produces a corresponding set of HTML pages
describing (by default) the public and protected classes, nested classes,
traits, objects, methods, and fields.

During a run, the Scaladoc tool automatically adds cross-reference links to
package, class and member names that are being documented as part of that run.
Links appear in several places:

       · Declarations (return types, argument types, field types)

       · "See Also" sections generated from @see tags

       · In-line text generated from {@link} tags

       · Exception names generated from @throws tags

.\"
.\" ############################### OPTIONS ##################################
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
The Scaladoc tool supports the following options.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR
Generate debugging info.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>
Specify where to place generated HTML files. The output directory
<\fIdirectory\fR> must exist.
.TP
\fB\-windowtitle\fR <\fItext\fR>
Browser window title for the documentation.
.TP
\fB\-doctitle\fR <\fIhtml-code\fR>
Include title for the overview page.
.\"
.\" ############################### EXAMPLES #################################
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Generate the Scala documentation in the specified directory \fB/tmp\fR
.BR
\fBscaladoc\fR -d /tmp HelloWorld
.PP
.\"
.\" ############################# EXIT STATUS ################################
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
\fBscaladoc\fR returns a zero exist status if it succeeds. Non zero is
returned in case of failure.
.\"
.\" ############################## AUTHOR(S) #################################
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Stephane Micheloud.
.\"
.\" ################################ BUGS ####################################
.\"
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <scala@lists.epfl.ch>.
.\"
.\" ############################# COPYRIGHT ##################################
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002-2005 LAMP/EPFL
.PP
This is free software; see the distribution for copying conditions.  There is
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" ############################### SEE ALSO #################################
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scala(1),
.BR scalac(1),
.BR scalaint(1),
.BR scalarun(1)
.\"
.\" ##########################################################################
.\" $Id$
