.\" ##########################################################################
.\" #                      __                                                #
.\" #      ________ ___   / /  ___     Scala 2 On-line Manual Pages          #
.\" #     / __/ __// _ | / /  / _ |    (c) 2002-2006, LAMP/EPFL              #
.\" #   __\ \/ /__/ __ |/ /__/ __ |                                          #
.\" #  /____/\___/_/ |_/____/_/ | |    http://scala.epfl.ch/                 #
.\" #                           |/                                           #
.\" ##########################################################################
.\"
.\" Process this file with nroff -man scalascript.1
.\"
.TH scalascript 1  "May 19, 2006" "version 0.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.\"
.\" ################################# NAME ###################################
.\"
.SH NAME
scalascript \- Script runner for Scala
.\"
.\" ############################### SYNOPSIS #################################
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBscalascript\fR [ \fIcompiler args...\fR - ]
\fIscriptfile\fR [ \fIscript args...\fR ]
.\"
.\" ############################### PARAMETERS ###############################
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
<\fIcompiler args\fR>
Compiler arguments, exactly as for \fBscalac\fR.  The compiler arguments,
if present, must be terminated by a bare hyphen.
.TP
<\fIscriptfile\fR>
One source file to be interpreted.
.TP
<\fIscript args\fR>
Arguments to be passed to the script.  They will be available
via the argv variable.
.\"
.\" ############################## DESCRIPTION ###############################
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBscalascript\fR tool supports writing script files in Scala.  To
write a Scala script on Unix, start the file with the following header:
.IP
.nf
#!/bin/sh
exec scalascript "$0" "$@"
!#
.fi
.PP
To write a Scala script as a Microsoft Windows batch file, start
the .bat file with the following header:
.IP
.nf
::#!
@echo off
call scalascript %0 %*
goto :eof
::!#
.fi
.\"
.\" ############################### EXAMPLES #################################
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Here is a complete Scala script for unix that prints out a friendly
greeting followed by all of the script's arguments:
.IP
.nf
#!/bin/sh
exec scalascript "$0" "$@"
!#
Console.println("Hello, world!")
argv.toList foreach Console.println
.fi
.\"
.\" ############################## AUTHOR(S) #################################
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Lex Spoon.
.\"
.\" ################################ BUGS ####################################
.\"
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <scala@listes.epfl.ch>.
.\"
.\" ############################# COPYRIGHT ##################################
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2002-2006 LAMP/EPFL
.PP
This is free software; see the distribution for copying conditions.  There is
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" ############################## SEE ALSO ##################################
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR scalac(1)
.\"
.\" ##########################################################################
.\" $Id: $
