.\" ##########################################################################
.\" #                      __                                                #
.\" #      ________ ___   / /  ___     Scala 2 On-line Manual Pages          #
.\" #     / __/ __// _ | / /  / _ |    (c) 2002-2007, LAMP/EPFL              #
.\" #   __\ \/ /__/ __ |/ /__/ __ |                                          #
.\" #  /____/\___/_/ |_/____/_/ | |    http://scala-lang.org/                #
.\" #                           |/                                           #
.\" ##########################################################################
.\"
.\" Process this file with nroff -man scala.1
.\"
.TH scaladoc 1  "May 1, 2007" "version 0.4" "USER COMMANDS"
.\"
.\" ############################## NAME ###############################
.\"
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBscaladoc\fR \- Documentation generator for the Scala 2 language
.\"
.\" ############################## SYNOPSIS ###############################
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBscaladoc\fR  [ <\fIoptions\fR> ] <\fIsource files\fR>
.\"
.\" ############################## PARAMETERS ###############################
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP
<\fIoptions\fR>
Command line options. See \fBOPTIONS\fR below.
.TP
<\fIsource files\fR>
One or more source files to be compiled (such as MyClass.scala).
.\"
.\" ############################## DESCRIPTION ###############################
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fBscaladoc\fR tool reads class and object definitions, written in the Scala 2 programming language, and generates their API as HTML files.
.PP
By default, the generator puts each HTML file in the same directory as its source file. You can specify a separate destination directory with \fB\-d\fR (see \fBOPTIONS\fR, below).
.PP
Supported tag comments are:
.IP
@author
.IP
@deprecated
.IP
@exception (two arguments)
.IP
@param (two arguments)
.IP
@pre
.IP
@return
.IP
@see
.IP
@since
.IP
@throws (two arguments)
.IP
@todo
.IP
@version
.PP
See also online document "How to Write Doc Comments for the Javadoc Tool" from Sun.
.\"
.\" ############################## OPTIONS ###############################
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The generator has a set of standard options that are supported on the current development environment and will be supported in future releases.
.\"
.\" ############################## Standard Options ###############################
.\"
.SS "Standard Options"
.PP
.TP
\fB\-d\fR <\fIdirectory\fR> 
Specify where to place generated class files.
.TP
\fB\-access:<access>\fR 
Show only public, protected/public (default) or all classes and members (public,protected,private)
.TP
\fB\-windowtitle\fR <\fIwindowtitle\fR> 
Specify window title of generated HTML documentation
.TP
\fB\-doctitle\fR <\fIdoctitle\fR> 
Include title for the overview page
.TP
\fB\-stylesheetfile\fR <\fIstylesheetfile\fR> 
File to change style of the generated documentation
.TP
\fB\-header\fR <\fIpageheader\fR> 
Include header text for each page
.TP
\fB\-footer\fR <\fIpagefooter\fR> 
Include footer text for each page
.TP
\fB\-top\fR <\fIpagetop\fR> 
Include top text for each page
.TP
\fB\-bottom\fR <\fIpagebottom\fR> 
Include bottom text for each page
.TP
\fB\-version\fR 
Print product version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-help\fR 
Print a synopsis of standard options.
.\"
.\" ############################## EXAMPLES ###############################
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.TP
Generate documentation for a Scala program
\fBscaladoc\fR HelloWorld.scala
.TP
Generation documentation for a Scala program to the destination directory \fBclasses\fR
\fBscaladoc\fR \fB\-d\fR api HelloWorld.scala
.TP
Generate documentation for all Scala files found in the source directory \fBsrc\fR to the destination directory \fBapi\fR
\fBscaladoc\fR \fB\-d\fR api src/*.scala
.\"
.\" ############################## EXIT STATUS ###############################
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fBscaladoc\fR returns a zero exist status if it succeeds to process the specified input files. Non zero is returned in case of failure.
.\"
.\" ############################## AUTHOR ###############################
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Martin Odersky and other members of the Scala team.
.\"
.\" ############################## REPORTING BUGS ###############################
.\"
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <scala@listes.epfl.ch>.
.\"
.\" ############################## COPYRIGHT ###############################
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
This is open-source software, available to you under a BSD-like license. See accomponying "copyright" or "LICENSE" file for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\" ############################## SEE ALSO ###############################
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBfsc\fR(1), \fBsbaz\fR(1), \fBscala\fR(1), \fBscalac\fR(1), \fBscalap\fR(1)
